hi there I'm Robert from Dolphin Street
here's a cool little blue speed rail
that you can have used for when you play
lead guitar so the ideas which is only
three notes and I'm playing here in the
key of E so the notes are G a and B flat
and you can play it in different ways in
terms of your fingering but the one I
want to show first here is the probably
easiest one and that I'm starting on the
twelfth fret on the g string which is G
of course and then the note a on the B
string on the tenth fret and the B flat
is a half step above on the 11th fret on
the B string and the way I'm playing it
is I'm I'm picking the the note G on the
twelfth fret and I'm picking that the
note a on the next string but those are
the only notes that I'm picking the rest
is hammer-on and pull-off so hammer-on
pull-off
and then start over again
[Music]
then you work it up to speed
it can sound really cool if you kind of
gradually be a lapis bead in the lead
you know something like repeat it again
[Music]
you know kind of cool phrase and then
other position you could do it is is
this one more 12th fret above there
would be so if the played here the first
note is with my mother my pinkie on the
eighth fret and the B string and then
fifth fret on the E string and then a
hammer on up to the sixth fret on the E
string and pull off eight five six five
[Music]
or about up here 12th fret above and up
here it's it's getting tighter so you
might want to use your ring finger for
that first note and I mean you can try
and find these your own fingerings for
these three notes the different ways of
playing it you can you can actually play
it on one string but you can't quite
play this as fast with doing hammer ons
that way because you can only pick the
first note I at least I find that would
be the most convenient way so I'm
picking only the first note there and
then the rest is pull-offs and
hammer-ons
[Music]
and that's that's cool too you know
whatever works these three notes are the
ones that are I find are really handy to
use when you rise in third fourth of
that five
[Music]
and those are part of the blues scale so
12th fret g string 10th fret B string
11th fret B string so I'm picking the
first note here picking this one picking
this one hammer-on pull-off start over
you
[Music]
and you got a mute of course the
e-string below and that's that's what
I'm doing with my index finger here and
making sure that it's touching the e
string below but not barring it because
that would get something like that I'm
just bending the finger enough curling
it enough this way so that it's it
doesn't fret down but at the same time
it's it's touching the e string below so
it will mute and the D string I'm muting
with my right hand
check out my right hand
[Music]
so you see that the D string here is
being muted by my my palm here check out
more lessons at Dolphin Street comm and
sign up for my newsletter and you'll get
free guitar lessons every week for over
a year
[Music]